- [Instructor] Job instances are created using the name
of the job and parameters passed by a job launcher.
If a job instance has been successfully executed,
it's not possible to rerun that same job instance.
Instead, a new job instance must be created by passing
a new job parameter to the job.
So for example, when we've been running our job,
we haven't been supplying any job parameters.
Therefore, if we re-execute the same job,
it will not be started by the framework,
it will assume the job has been successfully completed,
and it won't allow us to restart.
So here you can see that it's signifying the step
has already been completed, or it's not restartable.
So if we want to relaunch this job,
we need to do it with a new job parameter
so that we get a new job instance.
To help us with that, I'm going to package our job
as a jar using Maven.
So just right click on the project
go to Run as and then Maven build.
From here, we're able to specify the different goals
for Maven to package our application.
I'm just going to specify clean and then package.
and that will allow Maven to build the application
and package it as a jar.
Once the application has been packaged,
we can head over to our console.
If we look within our project directory, you'll notice
the target directory and it contains a jar file.
This is the packaged application and we can use it
to launch our job.
So just specified java-jar,
and then the name of the jar file.
Here, we're also able to pass our job parameter.
In this case, I'm going to supply by a new job parameter
named item, and I'm going to give it a value of shoes.
Once we launch the job with the new parameter,
we'll get a new job instance
and you'll see that we successfully package our item.
Now, when we're working with job parameters,
it's often useful to be able to access them within the code.
So if we look at our step, we're able to access job
parameters by working with the chunkContext.
So, what we're going to do is create a new string
named item and then we're going to use the chunkContext
and we're going to get the stepContext and then from there,
we can access a map containing our job parameters.
So just like a typical map, we need a key.
In this case, it's the name of the job parameter.
And then because the value of the map is of type object,
we're going to take that object to a string
in order to assign it to our items string.
And then we're going to declare a new job parameter
that we're going to access.
And this is a very common job parameter,
it's going to be the date
that the job was ran.
So when we launched the job next time,
we're going to specify a parameter run.date.
And that's going to allow us to pass in the date
the job was ran and then when we output this information
within our tasklet to the console.
Let's just use string.format to add a little bit more
information and we can use those different job parameter
values that are supplied.
So instead of just generically saying the item,
we can use an argument there to say the item name.
And then we can also say when the item was packaged.
So we'll just need to then supply those two arguments,
first, the name of the item,
and then second, the date.
So now we got more console output, you know,
that's going to include those values for our job parameters.
Let's go ahead, we'll need to repackage our project.
So we're going to have to use Maven once again, to build it.
We'll kick off our Maven build.
There we can see it's launching.
Now I'm going to head back to the terminal
and we'll clear things out.
Now the one thing you want to do,
you'll notice we're in that target directory.
It's going to get deleted with our build.
So we'll want to hop back a directory,
make sure you're sitting within the project.
And then once we see our target,
we can navigate into it.
And now we're going to launch our job again this time
with our run.date parameter.
So, when we want to specify multiple job parameters,
it's best to surround each job parameter in quotes.
So here we have item equals shoes.
That's one job parameter item with a value of shoes.
And now we're going to specify our next job parameter
run.date and we can do something when supplying a date,
After the name of the job parameter,
just put date in parentheses,
and that will cause the value of the job parameter
to be typed as an actual date.
And then when we supply a date to the framework,
typically it is a four digit year, so we're going to use
the first day of the year of 2020.
So, January 1, 2020
and we'll supply that as a job parameter.
Okay, with that in place, let's go ahead,
and we can kick off our job.
And now when the job executes,
you'll see that we got a new job instance
so we were able to, you know, rerun the job
and then we were able to access the value
of those job parameters.
So we see the shoes has been packaged,
and then the date we passed in as our run date.
So job parameters are very important.
When we are scheduling jobs,
it's often necessary to pass in job parameters
so that we're able to get that new job instance
and we're able to execute the run for that particular
instance of the job.